---
layout: page
title: PanoShip
description: Panoramic Video Generation and Object Tracking for Smart Ships via Deep Learning and HPC
img: assets/img/Panoship.png
importance: 2
category: PI
---

This project aims to develop and optimise algorithms for multi-view video stitching and object tracking tailored
for unmanned surface vehicles (USVs). The primary objectives are to enhance real-time panoramic video
generation and robust object tracking in challenging maritime environments characterised by large parallax,
low-resolution images, and sparse features. The motivation stems from the need for comprehensive situational
awareness in USVs to ensure safe navigation and effective monitoring in complex sea conditions. The project
will leverage high-performance computing (HPC) resources to test and optimise deep learning-based
algorithms, including unsupervised image stitching (based on UDIS++), video stitching with stabilization (based
on StabStitch), and multi-object tracking (based on YOLOv7 and ByteTrack). These algorithms require
significant computational power for processing high-volume video data, training neural networks, and
conducting scalability tests. Computational tasks include optimisation of unsupervised image stitching
methods, performance testing of video stitching and stabilization algorithms, and training of detectors during
object tracking. Results will be disseminated through progress reports and peer-reviewed publications. The
project team, led by Prof. Haitong Xu, has prior experience in maritime visual perception and has successfully
utilised HPC platforms for similar tasks. The outcomes are expected to advance USVs' autonomy and contribute
to safer maritime operations.

